Date: 21 August 2024

---------------NICE Campus Drive 2024-25---------------

CTC: 9 lpa


First Round (Aptitude + Coding Round) :


- It consists of 6 sections. Each section has 5 to 7 MCQ
questions and have to solve within stipulated time.
1. General Aptitude(7 questions , 10 min)
2. Core JAVA (5 questions , 5 min)
3. Operating System(5 questions 5 min)
4. DBMS(5 questions 5 min)
5. DSA (One DSA question to be coded in 25 min. It was
different for everyone. Some got DSA question on
stack, some on HashMap, some on trees/ graphs )
6. One easy coding question to be coded in JAVA only, in
25 min.


Note :
There were 7 to 8 panels. Each panel have one or two
interviewer. Your interview can be taken by any panel. I have shared
interview experience of my panel. Don’t conclude anything from it. Your
Interviewer can ask you anything from your resume. Yeah he will not ask
you anything that is not in your resume . So make sure you know about
each and everything that you have mentioned in your resume.


- Second Round(Technical Interviews) :

1. Interviewer greeted me and said how was your day ?
2. Then he asked about my introduction
3. Then he asked to explain any one of the projects that i
have mentioned.
4. Then he asked some questions like what real-time
problem you are solving through your project ? Have
you done any market research ? Is there any product
that already available over there ? How you are going
to distinguish your product from others ?
5. I had mentioned C++ and java in my resume. So he
asked some questions on it. How java is different from
C++.What makes JAVA is platform independent ?
6. Then he move to DSA section.What is DSA ? Do you
know about trees ? Types of trees ? Do you know
about sorting algorithms ? What is quick sort ? Can you
write down code for quick sort ?
7. Then he moves to DBMS. What is DBMS. What are the
ACID properties ? What is the Normalization. Just take
any table and try to reduce the redundancy from that
table using Normalization technique. What is B+ Tree ?
8. Any question for me. (I Listend the presentation
carefully. I just asked one question about one of their
product.

Third Round(Mangerial+ HR Round) :

There were two persons.
1. One interviewer asked me questions like have you heard
about NICE before ? Why Nice ? Explain your projects
.Which technologies you have worked till now ?
2. 2nd interviewer asked all technical questions like what is
difference between C,C++, Java. Write code to reverse the
array , write code of bubble sort.
3. Any question for me. (I just asked one question about one of
their product)